# ShyTrumper
This model intends to reveal the impact of certain opaque variables surrounding voter turnout. In this instance we turn to the election of 2016 and the idea of a “shy-Trumper”. This idea was based on the fact that Trump was seen as a morally corrupt individual and therefore when polled by a live interviewer Trump supporters were less likely to respond truthfully, or respond at all. This may have incurred a non-response bias within our polling system and led to the great disparity between what was projected and what actually occured. So this model serves to shed some light on that idea and hopefully see what some of the biases that may have played a part in the election.

## How it Works
Upon Setup:
Voters and Candidates are assigned a random point in a 2 dimensional unit plot. Voters are assigned a candidate they most closely align with, according to Euclidean distance. Voters are assigned some *shyness* value uniformly at random. 
Upon Go:
At each tick a voter, one of the turtles in the visualization space, queries one of their neighbors (exogenously defined) regarding their ideology. The neighbor can respond by either lying, if his neighborhood’s majority ideological demographic is different than his, or telling the truth. With this information about his neighbor (whether accurate or not) the voter decides how he would like to share his own ideology back. If his ideology is a minority in his own neighborhood (derived from queries) then the voter might lie. There are two options for this, if the received ideology is the voter’s neighborhood’s majority ideological demographic then lie with same ideology as received ideology, otherwise lie with majority ideology. If he is not a minority in his own neighborhood and his shyness is high enough then he will respond with the truth. Additionally, after an exogenously determined number of ticks, a poll will be released (percent determined exogenously) detailing gathered data about candidate’s perceived support level. Voters get polled at this stage, and if their shyness is low enough then they may not respond, skewing the poll even further. Lastly, after an exogenously determined amount of ticks, there is a general election and voters will vote depending on their vote preference. This is determined by their shyness and how well their candidate is doing in relation to the others (seen by the released poll). The greater the distance a candidate is to the best performing candidate the less likely to vote, the closer their candidate is the more likely to vote. Most of the output is printed to the user screen, but NetLogo offers much more granulated data analysis through the experimentation tool if need be. 

## How to Run
To setup the model, adjust the sliders to any values you like and then hit setup and then go. To see one step at a time, hit step. If you want to stop the model from running press go again (and collect 200). It is advisable to not re-setup without first stopping the model. 

## Difficulties
As you might gather from the **How it Works** section, there are a lot of exogenously determined variables. This is because I have no idea what the actual criteria should be. It is difficult to determine these values without careful deliberation and analysis, which I have not done. But allowing user control should they want to engage in such analysis may lead to interesting results. 

## Extensions
Adding further genetic algorithms for the voters would be interesting, for example, if your candidate was projected to do win by a lot but the candidate did not win (i.e. low turnout for that candidate as people found less marginal utility in voting) they might change their strategy in the next election to remedy that.
